Alright, here's what you just learned.
Explain the ISR mechanism and what causes a replica to leave and rejoin the ISR.
Configure replication factor and min.insync.replicas for a given durability target.
Describe the trade-off between unclean leader election and data loss.
Stick with me here.
This is the part where real understanding happens.
Don't just watch and forget.
Go practice.
Build it in code.
Explain it to someone.
That's how it sticks.
The complete Apache Kafka course with cheatsheets and mock interviews is at guru-sishya.in slash apache-kafka.
Drop a like if this helped.
You now know how to explain the isr mechanism and what causes a replica to leave and rejoin the isr, configure replication factor and min.insync.replicas for a given durability target, and explain the trade-offs in an interview.
Ab interview mein dhoom machao!